I'll be here.
Very good. So, I'll call the meeting to
order. This is the regular board of
finance meeting December 17th, 2025. And
we'll start with the pledge of
allegiance. Uh pledge of allegiance to
the flag of the United States of America
and to the republic for which it stands,
one nation under God,
>> indivisible, liberty and justice for
all.
>> Okay. So, first is public speak. Um, so
I'll just go around see see who I see.
Uh, Jerry Cr.
>> Okay, there.
>> I'm just coming to observe.
>> Thank you.
>> Good to hear from you. All right. Um,
well, Jeff, you're sort of a member of
joining us, sex, whatever it is. Um, so
if you want to speak now, fine. If not,
I'll pass over you.
>> All good.
>> Okay, Joanne.
You're muted. There you go. Yep. Got it.
Thank you. Hi everyone. Happy holidays.
I just wanted to come on and listen as
always. And I'm glad to hear at the
beginning of the talk that you're trying
to look into getting the video. I know I
had sent an email of concern. I don't
think you know, Rob, thank you for the
message that you got back to me. Um,
yeah, I just think it's important the
history of the town and that was a
transition meeting. So, when you want to
hear what people say, myself included,
um, I just kind of wanted to review it.
So, I'm so glad you're looking into it
and best of luck tonight.
>> Thank you. And, uh, Tenny J.,
>> hey. Hi. I'm Jody Tenny. Um, the new
finance director for AES. That's for
change my name in there. Hello. Um, I'm
just coming tonight. Um, I know you have
the bathroom project on your agenda. So,
uh, even though I'm new, you know, I'm
already got my feet wet. So, I'm happy
to, um, answer any questions if you have
any questions. Um, and I did want to
just update you all. I know, um, I know
Robert, you as chair, um, are in contact
with with Valerie frequently. Um, but
just some things to let the board of
finance know that we're working on um,
and with the town. Um we're working with
the town to try to get the Fuss and
O'Neal um invoices paid. So um we
appreciate the board of finances support
in helping us get those paid. Um there
are outstanding invoices that we would
like to uh get paid before the end of
the uh t the close of the tax year. Um
uh the audit corrective language, we're
still waiting and hope to get that soon
to finalize the uh the last audit. Um
the seed money, which is the special
education, uh it's ext um enrichment
money or enhancement money. um and the
town received that um over a month and a
half ago and we're still waiting for
that money to be transferred over and um
yeah and just we appreciate any support
or information on any of those issues.
So, thank you.
>> Okay, I think that's what we have for
public speak um additions and deletions
to the agenda. I do have one myself, but
if uh anybody else has something, uh
speak now, please.
I had a couple things. Uh, one one of
the things was the um corrective action
plan. Actually, I was curious about that
and the details of that. And um I also
wanted to try and add expectations for
monthly financials going forward from
AES. We tried to address that last year
and didn't really get very far on it. So
I'd like to add that to the agenda as
well.
>> Okay. So let's do um 6A.
We'll talk about the corrective action
plan and we'll make 6B
>> uh status of uh finan monthly financials
from AES. And I would like to add a 6C
uh discussion of uh actually what uh
Jody just mentioned the uh Fusset O'Neal
billing that's now I think pretty far in
a rears. Uh there was a discussion, it
was an email uh that went around the
last couple days between uh Valerie and
Jeff Magcguire and me and Caitlyn um
board of ed chair uh with a request from
Valerie to get those bills paid. And the
one of the responses we did get uh from
Jim was and I think I knew this already,
you know, we're down a treasurer and our
assistant treasurer is out because of a
death in the family uh which has added a
bit of a complication to paying things.
So I wanted to talk through that and you
know in Valerie's email she had a
proposal for how to handle it and get it
get it moving uh sooner rather than
later. So I wanted to bring that up and
bring it before the board and see what
everybody thought of it. So that's 6C.
Um you know we can also in in that
discussion talk about the seed the seed
grant money as well. Um so basically you
know as
um billing slash uh fund transfer
request uh regarding the the seed money
>> if there's nothing further uh I forget
now actually I apologize since I am a
little new in the role. Uh we I think we
should we might want to quickly vote on
those. U so to move to add those to the
agenda.
>> I'll move that we add both of those
items to the agenda.
>> Three. Yep.
>> Three.
>> Three items. I'm sorry.
>> Yep.
>> I'll second.
>> Okay. All in favor? Oh. Any discussion?
Sorry.
>> Yeah. I
>> I
>> Nick, I can't hear.
>> Yep. I
>> Okay, great.
All right. Everybody voted I.
>> Very good. So, no. So, let's go on to
the town administrator's report. What
you got for us, Jim?
>> Okay. So, what you have in the packet is
the report from the uh board of
selectments meeting. I obviously have
some updates to that. So, I'll read
through it and um just give you updates.
So, under the job postings, we have
moved along fairly quickly from the ETH
uh tomorrow. So, there's three job
positions as you know, the assistant
assessor, the treasurer, and the um and
the town administrator are the three
positions. Uh we have tomorrow and we've
got we've got some good feedback as I
mentioned. Um we got a lot of them, but
that's not a statement on the quality of
them because we've put quite a few aside
that really weren't qualified that just
kind of threw their name in the hat. But
we did get some quality uh applicants.
So tomorrow I believe it's five we have
five assistant assessor candidates
coming in uh for interviews and then one
on Monday. So that position which is
which is critical on a number of for a
number of reasons. One mainly is the you
know moving just that office forward and
the grant list forward. Um that
hopefully we'll find someone in the next
day or three. The treasurer's position
we've narrowed it down a bit. Jeff has
looked at them. I looked at them and I
think we had Kate. Kate was off today,
but we were shooting for some Monday
interviews um for that position as well.
So, and those are the main two I think
far as town operations to get filled.
The um the town administrators one has
some um hurdles to jump over it. namely
the um selection committee which is made
up of two um select board of selectman
members and one of your members um needs
to get together and choose from the
public uh the applicants from the public
who are neither elected or appointed
town officials and um and take a look at
those. As far as I know, last Kate
looked at we only had one person. It was
in River East last week. Um, we may have
she may have gotten more in the last day
than or today when she was out and
certain people were going to kind of
kind of, you know, beat the bushes for
some folks that they might know. If you
do know somebody, have them get their um
application into Kate. So, because that
that's the source of it in the newspaper
ad. Um, but once you folks get together,
you have a pool of people. you'll get a
committee of five and then you can start
looking at I think we had about 15 or
maybe as much as 17 applicants for that
position. Once again, if I had to say
there's probably about a handful of
viable ones, but that search committee
will deal with that probably after the
new year. Any questions on jobs or just
keep going?
>> Uh Jim, Jeff McGuire, I have one thing
and this is for the board members. Uh,
I would appreciate if a board member,
uh, board of finance member might be
available for the interviews. Um,
this was only just done yesterday as far
as a date, but, uh, we're trying to do
this quickly and so it's Monday and I
don't know, Jim, if you had three
interviews, but if somebody is available
Monday morning,
um, I would like your board to vote on
someone to to come and sit in on the
interviews.
>> We already did that last time, Jeeoff. I
was elected to do that.
>> No, you were elected for the town
administrator one. This is for the
treasur.
>> Oh, I'm sorry. I I zone out.
>> Yep. I got you. So,
if somebody has free time Monday
morning,
>> I'm willing to do it.
>> Hey,
>> get get on the that that's something,
Robert, that you need to vote on.
>> No, I I understand. I'm gonna I'm just
I'm going to put it out there. Make sure
that you know if Kim's the only one
who's available and interested and then
we'll just vote on that. If there's
anyone else who wants to throw their
name in the ring, then you know, go
ahead.
>> I'm I'm around on Monday morning if need
be.
>> Um, more the marrier actually, Robert.
>> Okay.
>> Because it's your listen, this is this
is your position, your board position.
>> Um, you guys have, you know, obviously
the board of selectment has interaction
with the treasurer, but the board of
finance is really in direct control of
the treasurer.
reality, she reports to you or they
report to you. So, if you have more than
one person, I think that would be a
positive to have come to the interviews.
So,
>> sounds good to me. Uh, so I I'll just go
ahead and just in the interest of moving
things along, I'll move that we uh take
a vote on sending Kim and Heather um to
these interviews on Monday morning. I I
assume those two are going to need to
get a little bit more detail on when uh
Jim, you know, get them in the loop. Uh
>> exactly when and if because when Kane
comes in tomorrow, I I didn't receive
any emails. We were hoping for Monday.
I'll find out tomorrow and I'll include
them in.
>> Okay. Yeah, Monday happens to be kind of
a bad day for me. So, but Heather and
Kim more than capable of representing
our board. So, um
>> Anybody have any You second the motion.
Anybody have any discussion on that or
should we just move to the vote?
>> All right. All in favor?
>> I
All right. Uh did you vote Kim or did
you are you abstaining because you're
one of the people?
>> I can abstain. I'll abstain.
>> Okay. Uh so is that I think it's uh 610.
>> So okay. So that's good. We'll have some
representation there. Hopefully those
interviews come together. Uh we
definitely need a treasurer for sure. Um
so good to hear. So uh and now we are
still in the town administrator report.
So let's go back to that and hit the
next couple items.
>> Okay. So, I did I've been working, as
you know, we have a a new new uh
resident trooper. Um Trooper Cook is out
on uh um medical leave. And um one of
the things Eric really we never had a
chance to really go over is the gun
permit process. I went through the
process of giving the application out
and telling folks what they need to do,
but then the process kind of goes over
for the fingerprint background check
side to the state trooper. and I wasn't
getting much me many confirmations on
that and a couple people called about
their status. So, it turns out Trooper
Anderson uh uh was not getting access to
the um to the approved background
checks. So, we're kind of working
through that and I expect we will work
through it now that we're we found kind
of the issue and the problem. We'll move
forward. So, so the the permit slowdown
won't be a slowdown very very much
longer.
Um, Bunker Hill, that's old news now,
right? You know, the Bunker Hill Bridge
is open. So, the real update on that,
excuse me, is about what's left to do
there. And it really is minor stuff. You
know, the weather changed fairly quickly
right around before and right around
Thanksgiving and then of course the snow
came, but it's really minor stuff.
You're talking about striping, which
they can't do in cold weather. So they
do have some temporary um you know
strips down the middle. Uh seeding to
grow grass where grass needs to grow.
And of course the main one is paving of
two uh drainage swailes coming off Route
Six and into the bridge. They by the
time they got ready for that the asphalt
plants were closed and then the weather
was cold, not good for paving and then
the snow came. So So that'll be taken
care of. Those are the the three main
items for the spring.
uh the Veterans Field Grant. Um I'm
trying to think of where we left it last
time, but we were under a bit of a a bit
of a pressure to get um prices locked
in, particularly for the the playground.
They were going to go up. I think it was
December 3rd or so. And we managed to
kind of plate the contractor by u
getting giving them a PO, a purchase
order for the amount of the equipment.
They're now asking by the end of the
year, which we will give them, just the
purchase order for the balance of the
project. Uh that is a entirely grant
driven section of that project,
$250,000.
I've been working with DEC and we've
gotten them what they requested, the
budget, a project overview, and a
resolution from the board of selectmen.
and um I'm waiting on them to review
those and get me a letter of intent and
a financial assistance agreement. That's
the more critical of the two pots of
money because it's a legislative
appropriation which ex which needs to be
expended by June 30th for the purposes
of DEC. That's the Department of
Economic and Community Development. Uh
for the purposes of their processes, it
probably should be spent by May 31st. I
don't anticipate us having any problem
once the weather uh turns out.
>> I I had a I had a question about this
one.
>> Yeah, sure.
>> So, I got a copy of the proposal summary
which looks like it was like 884,000
and then the first purchase order was
204,000.
>> Right.
>> So, I'm I I was just wanting some
clarification on why the next purchase
order is 705
cuz 8.83 83 minus the 204 is only
>> it's actually not it's going to be
6791520.
>> Okay. That's the number I had. So it's
not the 705 that's listed here.
>> No,
>> thank you.
>> I think uh I don't know maybe the
difference was
I'm not sure why what the difference
was. That's that's the number I talked
about with the contractor.
>> Okay, that's what I had. 679 11520.
>> Good.
>> Okay. Thank you. Um, and then the other.
>> Yeah, sure.
>> So, so the total grant, um, can we just
break it out for what the total grant
is, unless I just am missing it and and
how much the taxpayer amount will be for
the whole project, ex the expected
amount.
>> So, we're talking $750,000
in grant money. That is $500,000
in a steep grant, which we have plenty
of time to spend, and the $250,000
legislative appropriation, which we can
draw down on as soon as we get those two
documents executed with DEC. Um, that
has to be expended by, let's say, May
31st. So, it's the balance of that
eight, whatever number you had,
>> 83 minus the 750.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. And there's also there's a minor
$10,000 grant from the Hartford
Foundation. Some of it is inind work um
from public works. I don't have the
budget. I don't know if the budget's
attached there, but I don't have the
budget in front of me, but there's a the
cleaning and grubbing that was done by
public works. So, um that's not direct.
It's indirect kind of taxpayer dollars.
>> Okay. Thank you.
Any
other questions on that?
Uh the senior transportation, also known
as the municipal hub, uh grant. Um we
were given elevations and some building
drawings. There was a little confusion.
We met with the contractor um on uh Jeff
Jeff and I did last week. There was a
little confusion on the budget and what
it we that 83,000
um may or may not be accurate. what it
was in the original budget submitted for
the grant, Eric had used a uh the cost
of a kit um which was a little less than
the stick built version that's actually
going to be done. And we were confused
because 83,000 sounded like a lot of
money just to kind of expand the second
floor of the building, which which is
what what the change was. We were going
from kind of a regular roof, which was a
grade level like the one is now to a
higher second floor to use for storage.
So, uh, Jeff Jeff and I are working on
that with the contractor. So, I I would
just hold off on that. Other than that,
that grant is is moving forward. I've
been in contact with the person from the
state. We gave them an updated
resolution which was required and uh
we're going to move forward on that one.
Jeff, do I have that about right?
Yeah, I believe you have the amount
right. I believe we have I mean this is
me. I believe we have an issue with this
project. We're going to have to sit
there and find some additional funding.
Uh
Jim was right. I mean, listen, the way
that this this was initially quoted out
and the initial grant was was awarded
with the amount the building the current
building is two floors. Uh it comes out
to grade level on the parking lot that
goes on the other side of center street
and the building that was initially spec
as as Jim said was a a kit but the roof
ended up at the at the line of the upper
parking lot so that somebody would be
able to step out and walk up onto the
roof which is not acceptable. And then
the the other concept was
I was asking the contractor and Jim like
why are we not using putting a second
floor on that building so that we can
have storage for the town because the
sound the town and the organizations
have a very we always have problems with
where to store anything. So the rec
commission has problems with storing
stuff. The seniors have problems where
they're storing stuff. And so the
concept was do a second un uh uh
something that doesn't have heat or hot
water and you sit there and you would
>> put a new building. We're going to have
monetary problems with it. So that's
what Jim and Jeff Murray and I were
working on with the contractor to figure
out what would potentially be needed and
then we'll come back to your board and
we'll figure out how we might be able to
get it done.
>> Yep. That's it.
>> Um focus shift from Bucker Hill to Long
Hill. Um it's kind of a two-prong at the
beginning two phase thing. The same um
inspection consulting firm SLR who did
Bunker Hill was selected. This is before
I came on um with the state DOT uh the
state's um um consultant and Eric and
came to the conclusion that they did a
great job and they picked SLR again from
the four possible u uh firms. They are
now submitting documents to do. It's
kind of a back and forth. there's
submitting resumes, whatever DOT
requires in paperwork for them to move
forward. The second part of that is on
the 25th of November, a legal notice and
an RFP was put out for contractors to do
the work. Um, I've been getting some uh
inquiries
and I know very little about bridge
construction. So, I've been passing them
on as I'm supposed to to do DOT and uh
VHB, which is the state um consulting
firm and they are answering the the uh
the biders that will probably the the
successful bidder will probably be
chosen sometime in mid January. They
still haven't submitted their bids yet.
they have till I think it's January 9th
uh that we will all get together and
review those. So sometime in mid to late
January a firm will be chosen. Uh
just to give you a sense of things
there's a number of procedural meetings
that have to take place um in the DOT
process. So probably in April that
project will begin in earnest. There's
always a uh an issue, at least there was
last time, with utilities and the
movement of the poles have to be
relocated and that was a delay. I think
a six week delay with Bunker Hill. We've
done our part. We've cleared the trees
out over there. So, the utilities can be
moved. Uh I don't think it was
Eversource, though. If I remember Eric
saying it was Frontier was the delay. So
hopefully that won't be an issue this
time, but look for that project to get
underway in earnest in the spring.
Um before I left, Eric, yeah,
>> again, that project's 100% funded by the
feds in the state.
>> Right.
>> Um before he left, Eric said, you know,
we're kind of up keep an eye on the fuel
prices. December is a good month for
heating oil and particularly diesel fuel
um for next fiscal year. And he says if
it goes below 260, grab it. It went
below 260. So I did sign a contract with
dime oil uh for both uh heating and
diesel. And you see we're we're lower
than last year on both both counts
of of your interest. I don't know why it
says contract with, but I did uh get the
department budgets. Kate did uh to the
uh respective departments that a lot of
them haven't gotten back yet. If anyone
has returned their their budgets for the
upcoming budget year, it's been the
commissions that have kind of small uh
dollar amounts, but uh we'll start
looking at them. I January January 8th
is the return date for that.
Um, this is an issue that's no longer an
issue. I had some trouble with Mnt Bank
uh mainly on AC payments which were
required and they're quite substantial,
but they still had Eric listed as a
global administrator and that took quite
a bit of time to to get done. Yes,
>> Jim. Apparently Nick got cut uh kicked
out into a waiting room. Can you
>> Oh, sure. I'm sorry.
>> Okay. He has been back.
>> Okay, great.
>> Okay, so yeah, that's not a problem. And
um every once in a while there's a
little glitch with Mnt though. We have
to kind of get on with their treasury
department and and work through it, but
it's okay. This was for the first
selectment if you're interested. The
cannons wheels are on the cannon. Um and
they look nice. The Amish did a great
job is what I can say. We did have our
first snowstorm of the year. So, um I
don't know maybe your comments on on how
it went. Um Eric um Johansson is the new
public works director. You may or may
not have met him yet. Um and um
the night of the snow, he did go out and
salt. They waited a little bit for the
snow to kind of build up. Not to do
multiple passes, but let the snow get on
the ground and start doing it. So, I was
just curious if you folks have any
questions or issues that I could get
back to him on, but then, you know, the
snow stopped and just got frigid. Um,
they were doing mostly salting with the
with the cold weather and if there was
any melting the ice in the parking lots,
at least for our buildings.
No. And uh did I did speak with John um
Guskowski from Taiishi, our our planner,
their main job I would say is to get the
plan of conservation and development
ready to go. They have just in fact
today handed me a draft. Um and so
they've invited members of the board of
selected to attend a February I think
it's 17th meeting um to sit with
planning and zoning and uh give some
comments on that. So you know it's
something I'm not really sure the last
time you folks did that. Supposed to be
done every every 10 years. Um
but um so that's moving along too. It's
an important document too when you're
for example applying for grants. They
like to hear that it's in line. Whatever
you're doing is in, you know,
conjunction with the plan of
conservation development. And if the POC
is not up to date, you really can't say
that. Um, and that's what I have.
if you have any questions for me.
>> Sounds like uh we can hopefully expect
in our January meetings just towards the
end of the month that we're going to
have some real preliminary budget
requests to look at.
>> Glad you will.
>> Good. Cuz you know, I was starting to
wonder I I'm glad you addressed that
because that was one of my questions I
was going to ask anyway. Uh obviously
our given the the charter changes and
everything the the first time we went
through the the new
process was last year and it can be
pretty tight. So I wanted to make sure
we were on track to actually start
getting a spreadsheet together and
looking at something so we can start go
through it get the maybe get you know
public works to come and talk to us get
you know as usual that's that's how we
always handle it. Um each department
comes and does a little explanation of
what they need in their budget, what
they want for their budget. We do the
fire department, we do public works,
etc., etc. So this, you know, the sooner
that starts, the happier I'll be.
>> Yes. Your your January meeting is a bit
late this year. It's the 21st, it looks
like, and those are due on the 8th. So
we should have a nice give you give you
a head start on it.
>> Is it the 21st or the 28th? 28th.
>> You the third.
>> I think I think we might be the 28th. At
least that's what I put in my phone. If
I've got the wrong date, please somebody
correct me.
>> Are you the third Wednesday or the
fourth?
>> Yeah, we're the fourth. We're ear We're
early this month
>> because of the holiday.
>> Because of the holiday.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. We're usually right at the end of
the month.
>> Oh, so it's 28. Sorry.
>> Yeah, no problem. Gives you even more
time. But then then we then we really
got to sink our teeth into it and get
moving.
>> Does anybody else have uh questions for
Jim on the report?
>> No. Thank you, Jim.
>> Thanks, Jim.
>> I appreciate it.
>> And and if I don't have Heather andor
Kim, Kim, I think I do have yours. Email
addresses, please send them to town
administrator
andoverct.org
so I can arrange uh Monday.
Okay, thank you.
>> Great.
Uh, so the next thing on the agenda is
old business budget to actual review.
Um, actually Jim, uh, is there anything
you're aware of that's brewing here, um,
Jim or Jeff, that that we should focus
on or are we looking pretty good?
that I don't um I don't know if Jeff
wants to chime in, but again the finance
office has been not only do we have the
death in the family this week as you
know the treasur has been gone since the
8th.
>> Yeah.
>> And actually uh Chris had a medical
procedure the week before. So you know
it's been about a week and a half. So I
don't know I don't think we've seen
anything from that. Jeff.
>> Okay. Did we lose
>> anything with the you I don't know if
you got the check register.
>> We got the check register. Yeah. Okay.
>> There was there was one question on the
check register and it's just one of
those stupid things just like what um I
think it's page 13. It comes up as it's
about 3/4 of the way down. It says
spring. It's right under the RAM and AES
for 9,450. I'm just wondering what is if
anybody knows what is spring.
>> I can find out for you. about that.
>> Uh, Bill, I had asked that question at
one of the last meetings
>> and uh, I can't remember, but it wasn't
it wasn't something that was it was just
an odd name for a standard expense,
>> but we'll get you the information and
Jim can send you an email on it.
>> It's just more of a curiosity than than
I'm worried about anything. It's just
very curious
>> that that's that's honestly what you
guys should be doing all the time,
>> right? you know, whatever you're curious
about or whatever you're thinking about,
you should be uh getting to Jim and the
treasur's office and the board of
selectman and saying, "What is this
for?" So that we're all aware. I mean,
>> absolutely.
>> I personally believe that check register
is something you guys should look at.
You know, just like the board of
selectman needs to look at it and
we really need to get all the same
information in our packets so that
everybody has the same info and anybody
has a question on a specific transaction
can at least get the information and if
they need to drill down further they get
more information.
>> Yep. I agree. Thank you.
>> Thank you.
>> I I have a question. Um it's not big but
I did notice it in the um budget to
actual And I see that we're over
in contract software.
It's item
and I I can't remember how much we were
over by. I just remember looking at it
and wondering about it. So, let me see
if I can find it again.
>> Do you know what line item that was?
>> It's 111438.
I got to figure out where I found it.
So, it must be
>> There it is. I see it. It's under tax
collector contract software maintenance.
>> Yeah. Yes.
>> By 30 almost 3,700.
>> Yeah. So, I was just curious if if uh
Jim if you were aware of what that was
about yet and if not if we could maybe
just find out what that was.
>> And that's under tax collector. Okay.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. I mean, if we're if we're go going
over budget and there's a good reason
for it, we need to know that for
budgeting for the next cycle. That's for
sure.
>> And for transfer purposes because
>> Yeah.
>> We will need to come back to your board.
>> Yep.
>> In April and ask you for a transfer from
another under budget line item to cover
that,
>> right?
>> Yep. We always do that at the end of the
year. Yep. I get it.
I I mean there will be also multiple
line items like what we talked about at
our last meeting related to the
community senior center uh staffing line
items will be over budget at the end of
the year and we'll be coming to the
board and asking for transfers on those
types of things and and those are the
types of things you should call out
early. The sooner you know about it the
better off you're going to be and the
better we're going to be for like you
said Robert for budgeting purposes
moving forward.
>> Yeah. I mean, if we've got if we've
sorted out how we want the staffing at
that building, um, we then we need to we
need to budget for that, not, you know,
not go off last year's, which was
insufficient. By the way, I think we
lost Nick again. Can you do you see him?
>> I don't know what happened. I don't
>> look at the other getting kicked out
apparently.
>> Maybe. Is he on a phone? I think
>> anymore. He was still He was He was
clearly at home. He had his video up. He
was on. He's off now.
>> I'm right here. It's on my computer. I'm
sorry. It kicked my internet kicked me
out for a second and then it just came
right back on, but it kicked me out of
the meeting. I'm sorry about that.
>> Okay. Your Wi-Fi went down.
>> Okay.
>> All that happen once a year.
>> Just once.
>> Yeah. We'll give you the ball again. Um
Okay. Um anything else on the budget
actual or check register? I have a
question on the check register and this
might just be because I don't know but
um what is Aby's Contracting LLC?
>> It's on that same page.
>> Yeah, it's a couple under the spring.
>> Yeah.
>> Was that page 13?
>> I don't know because I printed it out
with two of the check register.
>> Oh, yes. Aby's Contracting LLC. You know
what? I had a question on that one, too.
So Aby's contracting.
>> I will look for it myself.
>> Get back.
>> Page two of five. If you look at the
check region on page two or five towards
the bottom,
>> right?
>> Page 13 overall.
>> 13 overall. Yes.
>> One, two, three, four below. Spring.
>> Yep.
>> I will find out.
>> Thank you.
>> All right.
>> Do you know what uh Barton and Lowise
LLC is? That would be on the next page
at the top. Barton and Log 9,000.
>> They're working on that um uh the trail
behind the um town hall in the school
area. Uh
>> uh the connectivity uh project.
>> Yes.
>> Uh that was interesting because that
came up. They did actually they were at
and gave a presentation to the board of
ed on that at their last meeting.
But they were the successful contractor
chosen a while ago. I'm not sure who the
if the town did that or that was more of
a a Crag thing.
>> Engineering services done by the town.
>> Okay.
>> And and that's the Percy Cook Trail.
Like you said, not necessarily the
connectivity d grant, Robert, but the
Percy Cook trail that Eric has a grant
lined up for the construction of that
project or Eric had a grant lined up for
the construction of that project. And
that is the engineering firm that's
doing the um analysis of the grade and
how to do it so that it's not too steep
and it's as far away from the school
property as we can get it.
>> Yep. That was the substance of the
discussion um at the BOE meeting.
>> Jim, on page 15,
about midway down on November 19th,
there was a transfer.
Do you know what that's for? A transfer
of 3,49873,
I'm assuming.
>> Say transfer to what? Yeah.
>> Yeah. From where to to where? Yeah. Just
curious what that is.
>> Uh I will you you're going to have to
find that out. But that's one of those
transfers that the treasurer would make,
you know, from
the cash and the general fund to a
a permanent fund
and probably should be in the memo so
that you could see what's up. So, that's
something that Jim, we need to talk to
the finance department so that there's a
little bit more information in the
details on that check register on items
like that.
>> Yeah, that would be good if we could get
a memo column.
>> Now, can you look over to the right?
Does it does the list that they give you
give the account numbers that certain
things are coming out of or going to?
>> No, no, no.
>> Well, there's a number. Wait, there is a
column says numbum
>> and there are there are there are
numbers there but not for that transfer.
>> Not for that one.
>> That's blank.
>> And the other there's another transfer
later at 11:30 too. And it's the same.
It's a much bigger transfer.
>> That's probably something that moves
between the interest earning account and
the general fund.
>> So
>> yeah, I mean it's over a million
dollars.
That's that's that's actually
>> that's actually something that we we all
need to work at that
>> you can get better information on that
report
>> across report.
>> Yeah.
>> Wait.
>> Yeah. Million.
>> Which report? I'm I'm sorry. I couldn't
check the the the check register getting
a a memo or notes or something column
>> to let us know what a transfer of 1,338,
>> 49104
was from and to but I mean I think
Jeff's got to be right based on the
sheer size of that.
>> Yeah.
>> No, that one that one I'm sorry that one
sounds like a that's probably on an
incoming transfer incoming.
>> It's incoming. That's a that's a that's
an ECS funding. That's the uh
educational cost sharing for the state
of Connecticut.
>> So yeah, I mean that in my mind there
there's got to be a way to label that
and say ECS. So we we just know what
that is.
>> Um
>> that come quarterly
>> or do we get two payments?
>> Total amount is only like 2 2.2 million.
>> Yeah. So, it's got to be that's got to
be the first of two trenches or
something or second maybe.
>> I mean, and I Yeah, don't don't take me
for exact like
that's my best guess on that one. There
could be also grant funding coming from
the bridge. There could be a lot of
different things as to how the treasurer
and the finance department are bringing
dollars in. But that doesn't mean that
the board of finance and the board of
selectmen and any other organization in
the community shouldn't get a little bit
of detail and support as to what those
are. And so this is really good because
you guys are asking really good
questions and now Jim and myself have to
get back to the to the finance
department say this is what we need to
see so that we all can do our job better
and more efficiently.
>> Absolutely. Sounds good.
Yeah, agree. Thank you.
>> Um, all right. If is everybody good on
the check register for now?
>> Yeah.
>> Because then we can move on to donation
requests, which it's still on our
agenda, but I feel like I'm not sure
where we where we are on that,
especially given the situation with the
finance department in town right now.
probably was just wait till we have our
our new,
>> you know, person hired or something and
see how they want to handle it because
>> yeah,
>> we were told in the past that there's
really no way no way to handle this. It
>> I don't know if we should leave it on
there just so we don't forget it, but we
kind of got our answer was kind of like
no, not now. Let's not do that.
>> I I think we have to kick the can on
this one as well. Um down the road.
>> The issue there is I think that we
already have all these little accounts.
you know, we've been trying to
consolidate them for years and taking in
a small donation and creating another
account for it. The town isn't really
>> like to do that. So, but yeah, let's get
a new treasurer in there and then maybe
revisit the issue. Anybody disagree?
>> Nope.
>> All right, I'm good with that.
>> Maybe Diane uh maybe Diane does, but
because it was her it was her donation,
right? It was
>> Yeah.
>> Grineer. Diane Grineer. Maybe she feels
differently about it, but I think we
have to kick it down the road.
>> Well, she definitely wanted the the town
to be set up to take the the money, and
I I completely understand it. Uh I just
don't know the best way to handle it,
and I'm you know, until we have a
treasurer, I I don't know that we can
make any progress.
>> Y
>> uh leison reports.
So, I guess you know,
you know, watch the board of ed meeting.
We're there uh via Zoom. I was actually
there in person.
>> Did you skip back? Are we skipping the
status of the school?
>> Did I skip? Did I skip right over six? I
did.
>> I skipped over 5D
also.
>> 5D also.
>> Okay. I apologize. So, uh, the status.
Okay. Well, all right. Board of Ed
meeting. Anyway, status of the bathroom
project. Um, the way things we we talked
about this, the the board of ed talked
about this at their meeting last week.
Um and they had a vote to go ahead and
get some additional bids. Um you know
>> reviews, wasn't it Rob? More more of
reviews or
>> Yeah. I mean my understanding was they
they they had three options that they
considered and one was just proceed with
the project as plus O'Neal you know had
pres presented. One was um I think you
know almost like a start from scratch
RFP process and the other was go get
additional bids from contractors. Um and
that was my understanding of the vote.
Liz, you were there too. I think Kim,
were you also on there?
>> Um if you want to chime in and and tell
me I'm wrong, go ahead. But that's
that's what I recall them discussing.
That's kind of the way I remember it
that op option three is what they landed
on and the specifics to that I didn't
quite understand to tell you the truth.
Um I don't know
>> what going to get additional
>> I
>> you know options or bids or whatever. I
don't know what the process is going to
look like for that.
>> I'm not sure either. I talked to Val
yesterday and she made it sound like
more like it was a gut check by getting
additional reviewing by contractors. Not
so much it's like not it's not like an
RFB process, an RFP process. It's more
like kind of checking with other
contractors to see does this look in
line type of thing is what it seemed
like to me. Did does that sound right or
no?
>> It it was kind of like an overview or
review of the of the quotes and the and
the work.
>> Yeah.
>> I mean, yeah, I I don't really
understand it. I mean, I think
>> I don't either because otherwise you do
an RFP process if you're putting it out
for for multiple bids. kind of like an
RFP process almost really,
>> right?
>> It seems like it seems like it's turned
into a much bigger project than what was
initially um expected. And I I think for
the the better, you know, for what's
best for the town and the taxpayer to pe
for people to feel good about it, I
think the RFP process makes the most
sense. Um
and from the beginning
she had indicated that Fuss and O'Neal
would handle the RFP process. We got a
document to that um effect.
>> Correct.
>> So I don't know why it hasn't gone
through that process.
I I I
think that's the way they're leaning and
from what I understand is looking at
these uh contracts. Obviously, none of
us board of ed board of finance, we're
not people that are um really qualified
to review these type of documents and
bids. So someone like having fuss of
O'Neal in in her mind is someone that
can review these these bids and these
documents with knowledge
if you will
>> that we don't necessarily have
>> they could have right and and I think
>> initially f I mean that was the plan was
that Fuss and O'Neal would oversee the
RFP process but it sounds like they
didn't even go that route at all. It
just seems like cousin O'Neal chose
somebody or
>> they I think they they sort of picked
the the subcontractors that they thought
were best. But my the latest
communication I had from from Val on
this because I asked about it too. Um
was that she t the most recent thing was
she talked to Eric Becker who was the
project manager for our senior center
project.
>> Uh and this is the Eric Sanderson. Eric
Sanderson.
>> Oh Eric Sanderson. I don't know why I
>> Becker was the last boy board of ed
member that stepped down.
>> Oh, I think she just got her name
swapped. So,
>> oh, that's possible. Yeah,
>> it's Anderson. So, um but again, and
this is sort of along the lines of what
Bill was talking about in terms of uh a
gut check and you know, is the fidonial
proposal reasonable? Which is not a bid.
Um so, we're going to have to that's
sort of TBD. We're going to have to hear
more from the board of ed on that. Um
and we'll go from there. But that's the
latest and greatest u based on their
meeting. They they had a lot to get
through. They obviously they put some
they had to fill a vacancy. They had a
lot going on. So, but that was the
update that I got and the most recent
information that I have to share.
>> Hey, um Bill, you were on the committee,
correct?
>> Yep.
>> Did you guys do you guys even have
stamped drawings from Fuss and O'Neal as
to what the project's going to entail?
>> I have
I have I don't I'm not I wouldn't call
them complete. I don't not sure about
that, but they have I have drawings and
I have the specifications.
>> Okay. So, has the committee that was
established to oversee this reviewed
final drawings on the project?
>> No.
>> Okay. I think that's where you got to
start.
>> You know, kind of only makes sense that
you have a final plan. And yes, my
understanding is that Fuss and O'Neal
chose specific contractors that they
thought had skills within the areas that
we were looking for. They didn't go out
and quote with multiple contractors.
Didn't quote out with any local
contractors for any pieces of that
project that could be done. So, I think
there's a lot of work to do on that. And
I think it starts with the committee
that was formed to sit there and oversee
this. And if you guys don't get final
drawings and stamped drawings from the
engineering firm that we've paid a
significant amount of money to, then I
don't think any other board can really
do anything. I don't think the board of
finance can really do anything. I don't
think the board of selectment can be can
do anything because I haven't seen final
drawings.
would have been my expectation and it's
still my my expectation and hope is that
they would come with busil and give a
presentation to our board and to the
board of selectmen to show us exactly
what what the drawings are. This is what
we thought the project was because from
what I've heard bits and pieces it
sounds like the project has gotten
bigger than what it initially started
out to be. you know, just to lay it all
out and show us all what it all entails,
you know, down to whatever everything
and what the financial impact would be.
So, I mean, that's what I keep hoping is
that we would hear that they wanted to
set up time on one of our calendars to
do that presentation.
>> There's going to be a meeting, according
to Val, on the first week of January.
They're not sure which day, but the week
of January 5th will be kind of the next
meeting um that they're gonna have
>> meeting with the subcommittee.
>> I don't know. Yes, she asked me to be
there. Absolutely. I'm sure I'm assuming
Jeff Murray was asked to be there as
well.
>> Will that be um will that be an open
public meeting?
>> I don't know. She just she sent me a
text saying that this was going to be
the next meeting that we get together.
They're not they haven't picked the
exact date, just that it would be the
first week of January and she would get
back to me with more details.
>> Okay. Because I had heard the board of
ed um indicate that those meetings would
be um advertised and that they would be
posted on the website.
So I I so I'm kind of looking for that.
I was kind of looking to, you know, like
when the board of selectment has a a
special meeting, they
>> you know, they advertise it.
>> Was that done? And I and I I I apologize
and I just went to Caitlyn. I wasn't
able to attend the board of education
meeting, but was that discussed at the
board of education meeting? Uh, Bill, or
>> when was that decided? Did you just get
a text?
>> I just got a text today on that.
>> Just got it today.
>> Yes.
>> I think I do remember hearing that
discussed.
>> It was mentioned at the last meeting
that they were
>> Yes. And then they're going to make
their final decision it looks like on
the week of the 14th at their regular
meeting.
>> Make their final decision about what?
>> Let's see. Have a board vote on I think
the the process that they're going to
use whether it be RFP
>> uh you know O'Neal or this I don't know
that's a third option.
>> Okay.
I'm just
>> Well, if you um have any influence on
that, can you suggest that it's a a
public meeting?
>> I think it would be a good idea again
just to make a to your point, Liz, a
presentation to, you know, to our two
boards just to bring us up to date where
where they are.
>> Absolutely.
>> Yes, I will. It's a question of, you
know, when we
>> when they're prepared to come do that,
but I agree. We I' I'd like them to
>> to come and and have us feel there and
and help walk us through it.
>> Yep.
>> Bill,
>> I will definitely talk to um to Val
about that. Make sure.
>> Thank you.
I was uh sorry, I was just maybe
drafting an email to this effect
uh just to to make sure that to explain
what we discussed tonight and what our
expectations and hopes are. Um you know,
because I do think just hearing our
discussion tonight, there's still a
little confusion. So, I think we need to
get some things clarified.
But at this time I I don't have anything
further. So either
>> unless there's more discussion on that,
uh we can go to our new business. And
Liz, you had a couple items you wanted
to talk about.
>> Yeah. So the first one was the update to
the corrective action plan and because I
was confused about that when I heard at
the board of education that they were
waiting for something from the town. So
um I was hoping that Jeff could fill us
in on that.
>> Yep.
>> Are you talking about the back the the
overdue payments, Liz?
>> No, no, this is about the audit. This is
about the active action plan for the
audit. And it was something that my
understanding is that board of ed and
board of selectman kind of had to
>> or the superintendent and the first
selectman had to cooperate on.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. for the audit for
>> I was going to Yeah, I was just going to
say for the year ended 2025. So 2024
2025,
>> right?
>> Okay. So let's go through the history of
this so you understand what's occurred.
So um the audit was completed. Eric and
Valerie were uh there is one audit issue
that is out there and the audit issue as
I initially understood it was related to
bank statements but when I started to
have discussions with the auditor and uh
read the correspondence between Valerie
and it's a little bit more about
information but the issue the Kappa
should have been a collaborative effort
between Eric and Valerie
Um and the decisions about what
information is needed should have been
collaborative. That didn't occur. Um
the issue is that the treasurer is
attempting to reconcile
the monthly information
that she receives to from the board of
education into the financial statements
for the town. So the information that we
receive so I'll try to explain it to you
so we can all understand it. town sits
there and pays
re submits a dispersement to the board
of education in the range of about 4
point or $480,000. There's there's 10
payments uh a year and it's the entire
budget that the board of finance agrees
upon with the board of education. That
money is submitted to uh the school and
the school finance department.
The treasurer is attempting to take
transactions that are processed by the
board of education and determine these
amounts. So like if you look at our
budget to actual, you have uh a budgeted
amount and then you have actual
expenditures. The school does not spend
all $480,000
every month. It it fluctuates. So
there's expenses that the school incurs
and then the rest of the money ends up
into bank accounts. And the school, as I
understand it, has four bank accounts.
They have an operating account, they
have a grant account, they have a a
student activity fund, and they have a
cafeteria account. So the treasurer was
attempting to create an understanding of
what those cash balances were and what
actual expenditures went out from the
board of education. So that's the basic
understanding of what that's the
treasurer was attempting to do and the
treasurer was not capable of doing it
with the information that she was
receiving. So the auditor made uh sat
there and said you know you really you
can't do this in the way that you're
doing it because it screws up your
books. So
Eric wrote a kappa and that kappa was
submitted to the auditor. the auditor
agreed with that kappa and Valerie did
not agree with that kappa. So the
superintendent sat there and went back
to the auditor and said I don't agree
with the resolution to that. So then I
had to get involved because Eric was
leaving and the auditor called me and
honestly I have to sit there and draft
the kappa now that and get Valerie uh
work with Valerie to get it done. I have
some ideas. I think it can be done
fairly easily. Uh, and to be really
honest, I haven't sat there and done
that because there's been a few issues
going on. I know I need to do it. Uh, I
know I need to work with Valerie to get
it done. I think we can do it so that
the future treasurer can get numbers
that actually make sense because
even if you look at your numbers now,
I'm not sure what the treasurer has
actually done in in the first four
months of the year, five months of the
year depending upon how many you get,
but um you know, I think we can do it. I
think we can do it pretty easily. I just
think that we have to consistently get
information. And it's not the board of
selectmen that needs to get this
information. It is it is the board of
finance and the treasurer's office that
needs to get this information because
you guys need to be able to do
oversight. You need to see kind of
similar things to what you were
reviewing for the town today. And the
treasurer's office needs that
information so that they can provide you
and account for the town appropriate
financial statements on every month. So
the capa issues on me. It was put on me
because Valerie and Eric didn't work
together properly. And I will get it
done. My hope is to have it done by the
end of the month and have Valerie
approve it. It's a a check the box issue
really. Um there are some issues that
I've been told that the there's, you
know, everybody sits there and says a
lot of different things about what's
right, what's wrong, and you know, we're
going to hold up grants and not hold up
grants. Uh, I spoke to the auditor two
weeks ago and I will sit there and get a
summary of what I think we can all work
with and what the school should be able
to work with the treasur's office moving
forward.
>> Any questions?
>> Thanks, Jeeoff. I appreciate the update.
I mean, it's just
>> Thank you, Jeff.
>> You know, hopefully that'll uh you'll
find the time soon. I appreciate I know
a lot's going on.
>> Yeah. Can I just mention for the minutes
that were uh if the audit is for 2324,
it's not 2425. This is a
>> two years ago audit. Yeah.
>> Oh.
>> So
>> Oh, right.
>> It's still not complete. So the the
auditors are ready to do the they're
currently working on the current audit.
This is left over and unresolved from
the from the audit before. So, just
wanted to make sure your minutes reflect
the correct year.
>> Oh, thank you. I thought I thought we
were talking about this most recent one
because I know they're working.
>> Honestly, so did I.
>> Yeah. No, it's the one from the year
before.
>> Okay.
>> Oh, wow. Okay. That
>> Well, you have to you also have to sit
there and understand when the auditor
finishes his work.
>> So, we won't sit there and see the
audit. You didn't sit there and see that
audit until probably the middle of the
year. So, let's sit there and say we're
talking we're talking the end of 2024,
right? You saw that the beginning the
audit completed in the beginning of
2025.
Anybody? I mean, and I'm talking to the
finance director at the school. When
does that audit when does when is the
audit dated? I I I'm driving so I don't
have it in front of me.
>> Yeah, I don't have the exact date, but I
can tell you the auditors for this year
have been in and they're closing up the
audit. So January, February, you know,
the books close the end of June and the
auditors come in and we want to get the
audit, you know, by January, February,
so we can close out the book. So, um, so
this audit, you know, my guess is it was
done, like you said, probably
eight eight months ago. They were trying
to, you know, resolve this. I I know
there was some back and forth on the
corrective language. I I believe Val
drafted.
Again, I know she and Eric went back and
forth. I believe Val drafted language
and showed that language to the auditor
and the auditor was okay with that
language. So, I but I agree, Jeeoff, I
think the sooner you guys can sit down
together and get this worked out or
maybe sit down with the auditor
together, the three of you, that would
be great. Um,
>> but but let let us all understand this
is not holding up the audit. This is a
corrective action plan as to items that
the auditor felt that the town was not
doing appropriately. It's a secondary
report that submitted to one of the
departments within the state.
>> Sorry. Yes, you are correct. I just know
that
>> not holding up the audit.
>> No, but the state is asking for
is the the state is asking Val for
information to about that corrective
action plan. So that is what's
happening. She's the state is saying
where is the where is this information?
Where's the final language from this? So
so again I it'd be great, you know, I
think everybody around the table
probably wants it um finalized, right?
And then um so just but I again I just
wanted to get the year clarified on the
minutes for you. So, the current audit
that was just
has it been submitted? Um, Jim, do you
know the most recent audit for the year
ending 2025? Was that submitted? Because
here we're talking about the corrective
action plan from the previous year. I
get that.
>> Uh, my bad on that one. But right now, I
believe that
>> the last I checked, the auditors were
here. Um, it was roughly the treasurer's
last or second or last day and they went
over to the board of ed, which was
probably the 8th of December. I can't
believe they're wrapped up and done.
Maybe they are, but
>> um I think they said they're just coming
back one more one more day to us. Yeah,
one more day.
>> Okay.
>> Okay, good.
>> We should start to see things in spring,
you know, in terms of them coming to us
with
>> Right. the final
>> outcome.
>> Gotcha.
>> Joanne put in chat her recollection is
April 2025 was when
>> we had seen the last one. So
>> that sounds right to me.
>> Yep.
Um
so that kind of segus into six well 6B
um in in the expectations
of what to expect. um what we should
expect to see. And I'm hoping that we
can kind of agree that we're not really
we don't really have good insight as to
what what's going on on the board of
eds, you know, where the money's going,
what they're buying, whatever. Um and
that's our responsibility. So, I would
like to
I would like to see that we get monthly
reports in our packet to include
the the budget to actual report. Um, I
mean, I know they have that out there on
their website, but I don't think we
should have to go and chase it down. I
think it should come I would imagine it
comes to the treasurer and that should
be part of our packet. And I would also
like to see the bank uh reconciliations
for all those accounts. Um the
operational account with to include the
check register, the grant account, the
student activity account, and the
cafeteria account.
Um, I know that I've attended a number I
mean I attend mostly all the meetings
and I know that the board of ed doesn't
look at those. They don't they don't
review those in their meetings and they
so I feel like there should be some
oversight so that we can feel good about
the budget that we are putting forth
next year.
Um,
>> if I may, may I speak?
Well, you know, she's here as a as a
resource. I'd be I'd be fine with uh
>> getting some more information if you're
done, Liz, if that if you've said Okay,
>> go ahead.
>> Well, I do have more. I do have more to
add, but but go ahead.
>> Oh, no. Go ahead, Liz. Please go ahead.
Please go ahead. I didn't mean to
interrupt.
>> Okay. So, one of the reasons that I'm
just not sure that I'm comfortable with
the knowledge of the finances is um
evidenced by the transfers that happened
in June. And there's one in particular
that kind of concerns me and I'm just
curious that
there was $112,000
that was transferred to the repair and
maintenance for the HVAC account. And
that line I think was budgeted I think
$15,000 and I think this year it's
budgeted for $17,000.
And I would like to see I would like to
see the um the receipts for what was
purchased for
for that for that line item. Um I I
think it's kind of I don't know. Was it
was it a oneoff thing? Was it a new uh
HVAC that they bought? Um I feel like we
have a a right and a responsibility to
understand where that money is going.
So,
>> so what I can what I can do, again, I
just started in November. Um, so I can
look into that transfer. To my
knowledge, there was no big HVAC repairs
to that extent of $112,000.
So, let me investigate that for you. Um,
I can come back to to you with that. I
would actually like to see, right, I'd
actually like to see the purchase orders
and receipts that add up to the 15,000
plus the 112,000 for that um for that
grouping.
>> Well, let me look into that for you. I
I'll get that information. I could share
it with you, Robert. You know, I'll talk
to Val and I can um get that shared with
you. Um I I want to make sure I'm
getting you the right information. Um
>> Okay. Well, I don't really want a
summary. I want to I would like a a
detailed expenditure summary.
>> Can I just one thing is this you said it
was a fund transfer.
Does that mean the money was spent? All
that money was spent.
>> Money was spent. Yeah. So $15,000 is
budgeted for the R&M HBAC line and there
were transfers
totaling $112,400
some odd dollars for that line.
So
112 + 15. So 1175
I I'm curious what was spent. What was
you know what was done with that? Um
>> yeah, let me check I'll check on that
for you. I'll verify I first I need to
verify the transfer and take a and take
a look at what that transfer is and then
I can get you that information. Um, as
for reports, just so you know, and
again, I can send them to Robert. And
actually, I apologize. I meant to get
you one of the reports that uh Terry has
been sending you. She calls it the board
of finance report. Um, and I have to get
Robert's email address to send that. Um,
but and just so people do know, and
again, I'm happy to share it with Robert
to forward it, but the summary
expenditure report, it's like a two,
three page report. It has a percentage
spent to date. Um that's in the board of
ed packet and a detailed um expenditure
report. Um so again after our board
meetings which are the week before yours
I can send that along with the BOF
report that I believe um Terry has been
sending you the BOF report and I
apologize for not having it for you guys
tonight. I I I just suggest you CC see
Liz because she's you know vice chair
and you know what if I'm I can't make a
meeting for some reason I'd like her to
have it too. Is that provided typically
to the town finance department as well
because that that's you know
I think it would make sense.
>> Yeah. And what goes to the tre and
additional reports go to the treasurer.
So, um, so those we have those three
that go to the board of ed and then, um,
>> there's more stuff that, uh, the list
from Terry, the bank statement, uh, goes
to the treasur as well. We have, uh,
four different reports that go to the
treasur every month.
>> Okay. I put in chat my town email
address. So,
>> wonderful.
>> You can just get it out of there.
>> Thank you. And Liz, do you want to throw
yours in there?
>> Oh, sure. Yeah.
>> Okay.
>> I don't know.
Got it.
>> Lo at at and over, you know, CG. But
>> right, so it would be LOC.
>> L O K I E C
at
>> Okay.
>> Whatever Roberts is.
>> Okay. Um,
>> here. You know what? I I have it here.
I'm just going to copy and paste it
>> that way. That way there's not going to
be a spelling error because
>> Thank you.
>> That's the last thing we need.
>> Can you tell me what reports you do send
to the treasurer?
Yeah. So, it's the um the general fund
expenditure report
um which I assume is the same one. I'll
have to double check with Terry, but
it's the uh yeah, it's the detailed
expenditure report which has line by
line, you know, how much is expended,
how much is encumbered.
Um there's a custom report actually and
I just actually it tells you our actuals
to date. Actually, I just have this one.
And it tells the um the appropriation,
what's expended, what's encumbered, what
the balance, the percent used, and our
um bank balance at the mo at that
moment. So we have that and then um
check registers from the and um the bank
statements.
>> Check registers from the operations
account. Uh yeah, from the general fund.
Um so actually that was a question I had
too. Do you want who usually that gets
sent after the board meeting who should
I be sending that to while you're
waiting for a treasurer?
Um, if you can just send it to
to the board to to the board or you
could send it to me and Rob and we can
we can uh share it with the rest of the
board or you can
>> Okay. Yeah, that would be great. Okay.
Yeah, I'll get that to you um tomorrow
or Friday.
>> And I mean going forward if we're going
to have stuff in our packet, you know,
Kate um you know, our packet gets put
together on the town side. Kate puts it
together. So, we're going to want you
need to get it to her as well. Okay. I
don't know whether we like I I want this
to be as smooth and you know not not
terribly clunky where you have
>> one person getting an email and then oh
I I forgot to forward it and now it's
not in the pack. You know it's better if
we tee it up.
>> If it all goes if if it all goes to the
treasure that would be great and Kate
can can um do it all.
>> How can I do that? I'll just send it all
to Kate and ask her to forward it to you
all and put in your packet. So, I I'm
kind of sitting here um feeling that
time is getting away from us and we're
going to be in the thick of it in budget
um budget mode very soon. I I would like
to make a motion I'd like to know how
the rest of the board feels. Um and I'd
like to make a motion to add these
reports as a standard report for our
monthly meetings.
So, if we could get
the custom expenditure report
um and bank reconciliations for the
operations account, the grant account,
the student activity account, and the
cafeteria account,
>> I'm going to I'm going to respectfully
say that I think that's too much
information. I mean, you can request
that, but
>> Well, respectful respectfully,
we're responsible. You know, it we're
the board of finance. responsible to
know these things. I'll make the motion
and we'll see where it goes from there.
>> Can I Can I ask
>> Can I ask a question? I just have a
question. I haven't done this before,
but we the finance group approves the
board of education total budget when we
do the budget. Right.
>> That's correct.
>> Are then I don't know how we break it
out, but are we allowed to say how they
spend this money once we the budget?
>> No. No, we do not have line item
authority on the board of eds budget.
It's that's the board of ed's job,
>> right? So, I understand like we the
information would be nice to see, but
>> if they didn't spend it how we thought
it
>> it's ultimately their call, uh, you
know, and so I'm I'm a little dubious
about
how much they're going to be willing to
give, you know, how granular they're
going to want want to get with us. But
uh in the obviously in the past we
haven't gotten it and you know there has
been resistance to uh you know I think
the concern is exactly this issue. Do we
since we don't have line item authority
on their budget right our our job is to
say they come to us each budget cycle
and say guys we need $5 million and we
say nope you can have 4.8
that and that's you know kind of it and
then they have to figure out how to
spend that. So, you know, in the past we
haven't gotten that kind of really
detailed info. I'm always happy to see
info, but you know, we may not get it
depending on the board of ed still has
their baywick.
>> Yeah, to Liz's point.
>> Yeah, I understand why Liz would want to
see all this. I just didn't know if what
we had authority over to,
>> right? We don't have authority over
that. But to Liz's point, when we're
trying to say yay or nay to
>> whatever the amount of money is that
they're asking the top line,
>> it's nice to have the details so that we
can say with making an informed decision
that yes, we support the budget that
you're asking for or no, we don't. So,
>> I do understand where Liz is coming from
that, you know, even though we don't
have authority over it, it's nice to see
it so we can make an informed decision
when we make a vote on that top line
amount.
So, I'd like to I'd like to second that
motion because
did you get the Is your motion complete?
Did you get it all the reports you
wanted in there?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. So, the all those all their all
their separate accounts.
>> Um those are the ones that I've heard
of.
>> Okay. Um, and I just feel like as a
board of finance member sitting here,
when somebody asks questions, I want to
feel confident about the decision that
we're making for the with the
taxpayers's money. That's all. And I
know that the board of ed doesn't do a
deep dive into Valerie's budget. You
know, she she gives her presentation the
way she does it and they operate the way
they operate. Um,
so ultimately
the oversight is ours. So I I I don't
know why what what the push back would
be, but um I it's just my feeling.
I'm open to more discussion.
Sorry, I'm I'm I'm just going to request
that for now the the I think having the
expenditure reports, the detail summary,
um the BOF report. I'm going to be
honest, in my town, I'm on the board of
selectmen. I've been on the board of
finance and that is even more
information than in my experience a
board of finance asks for and I'm very
happy to provide that. I think that
gives you, you know, you want to you
want to make sure there's oversight. I
totally understand that. Um I think
you risk the you run the risk of being
very micromanage micromanagy
and I I I think at this point I would
just formally request or humbly request
that we start with these three reports
and I'm again I'm happy to come to
meetings to answer questions about this
report. Um,
but I just think if too much is just
going to be an overload of information.
You know, I have to look at even check
registers. I have to make sure no kids
names or things are on there for
services. So, I you know, I I just
reconciliations, we do them and I
understand you want to make sure they
are happening, but they are complicated.
So, please don't expect a reconciliation
in time necessarily for your your
meeting. Um, that's really
that that to me is is a board of finance
and I'm and I I'm trying to be
respectful but for me that is really
micromanagy for a board of finance in my
humble opinion and I I but I respect you
I respect that you want information
>> what what were the three reports you
said that we would get we could get
>> yeah so it's a it's a summary extend
expenditure report which kind of lists
um the main control accounts and the
percentage expended right so you can say
29% of that accounts been expended you
know 40% and that way if you know you
can ask questions based off that report
which I think you get um then we also
have the more detailed expenditure
report where um you could see again a
line item and if that line item has been
you know how much is encumbered if it's
been ex over you know if uh if it's
overexpended you know then like where
we'd have to do a transfer you'd be able
to see that. And the other report um
again has that information as as well as
the Mnt bank account uh balance for that
time um and as well um what was it the
third sorry I was just going to read uh
percent used
um the appropriation and it also also
has our grant income on that report as
well. So that's that's a lot of
information.
Well,
>> well, I think I think would like to see
more.
>> Can I can I can I can I can I say
something as an as an account here? And
I'm just asking your board to think
about at this moment.
You guys are coming into a new budget
cycle, right? You're going to be asked
to sit there and evaluate the board of
education you just like you evaluate the
town. But think about how you're
evaluating the board of education. If
you don't get information that helps you
make a decision on a given line item,
then how are you doing it? And I just
ask you all to think about that because
I've been thinking about this. That's
why I got involved and engaged and I
come as an exofficial member and try to
go to all these meetings because like
how do you do it if you didn't know?
Like just think about this transfer.
Think about the transfer. I'll go
through the transfer from my standpoint
and the finance director can tell me
that I'm wrong. You had to transfer it
from somewhere. So, the $112,000
had to come out of a line item to go
into a repair and maintenance account
for HVAC. Where did it come from? Did it
come from salaries? Did it come from
some other line item that's that's
overbudgeted for? And then you guys are
trying to make another budget six months
in advance and you're not seeing a lot
of information.
So I'm just telling you in my head
what has to happen is the town's reports
that you guys over oversee and the board
of education reports that you oversee
have to be as close as possible. And I
realize the board of education has
certain issues that they have to
address. confidentiality a little bit
different, but not really. I mean, if
you're going to sit there and see a
check register, you can see a check
register. If there's somebody that needs
to be
blacked out, well, then it blacked out
to the public, but the board of finance
should still see it. I don't I don't see
any reason not to. But I am telling you
in my head,
how are you doing your next year's
budget? Like, you already did your
budget and there was a $112,000
transfer from one account to another
account. That's a lot of money. Where'd
it come from?
>> I'm asking for the opportunity. I'm
asking for the opportunity. Look, I'm
committed as the new finance director to
coming to all of your meetings to answer
questions. Um, I've already said I will
investigate that 112,000
um, and get that information.
But again, this is another reason why I
think it's important. I'd rather come in
front of you and speak to things as
opposed to just looking through
50 pages of financial information that
you might you know I
I that might you might it might not make
a lot of sense. So again I'm just want
to say I'm committed to come to your
meetings and answer questions and I will
look into that um that $112,000 transfer
from June. So sorry I don't mean to
usurp your meeting. probably be quiet.
Thank you.
>> Well, and we have a second on We have a
second on that. Don't Aren't we supposed
to
>> Right. We're going to There's a motion
on the floor. We're going to We have a
second. Um
>> Oh, yeah. I second that. Can we Can we
vote on that?
>> Oh, there you go. So, now if there's any
further discussion on this. Um again,
I'm a little bit I see the concern here
on the school side, but I I think we can
request what we want to request and
we'll go from there. So, has her hand
up. Ken
>> Oh, Ken, go ahead. I'm sorry. I I didn't
see it.
>> Um, it's okay, Rob. Just go ahead.
>> No, you're good. All right. So, what I
would say is at this point, unless
there's further discussion, we should
hold our we should have a vote. So, all
in favor of Liz's motion.
>> You want to do a Do you want to do a
roll call? So, for the uh
>> Sure. Okay. Uh, Heather,
>> wait. Can I I'm sorry. I have one more
question.
>> Sure. So, we're saying we can get the
three reports, but Liz is asking for
more for detail of every single account
or
>> there were five accounts, I believe she
wanted to see,
>> which is two more than we would have we
were going to get anyways.
Um, some of the reports we get don't
really provide much information.
Um,
I mean it's it's a monthly
reconciliation for the four four of
these four bank accounts, the
operational account, the grant account,
the student activity account, and the
cafeteria account. Um,
>> yeah.
>> So, I guess the I think what Heather is
trying to get at just for her
edification is what is the gap between
>> what Jod was talking about giving us,
>> right? Right. And what we
>> right
>> well uh the gap is if we saw more maybe
we would know throughout the year when
something came up. So like this $112,000
transfer, you know, maybe we would see
that stuff like like for instance, we
saw in our our own account
um that we were over on one line, right?
>> Right. That's a budget like the budget
taxual. But what what I'm asking is so I
understand your justification for
wanting the information. What what I'm
asking is though
>> what is theformational difference
between
>> what Jod was proposing to give us?
>> Would we see
>> and your motion just so Heather's clear
on it,
>> right? Would we see the transfer? Would
we see the $112,000 transfer on what
Jody was going to give us anyways?
>> Um would we see an overage? We we might
see an overage depending on when in the
year they incurred that expense if you
know with the year with the budget to
actual. But there's other bank accounts
that we never get to see.
There's other bank accounts with funds
in them that we never are pretty to see.
So
our with our oversight we should
be pretty to see them if we choose. So
like the grant account, the student
activity account, the cafeteria account
that wouldn't show up in the other
reports if that if that explains it.
>> So it's really the bank statements that
that we're getting
>> bank statements for those those other
bank accounts.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay.
Thank you.
>> All right.
>> Um Okay. Is everybody clear? As clear as
we can get anyway on the on the
difference between what Liz wants and
what Jod was thinking was appropriate.
Then we're going to go ahead. I'll go
around the I'll go around Robin. Uh I'm
gonna actually start to my right. I'm
going to go with Louise.
>> Uh
you're a yay.
>> Liz.
>> Yay.
>> Okay.
Uh Nick, sorry. You're next.
>> Um I'm gonna abstain. I don't think I
have enough info on the existing
accounts versus what we're asking for.
>> Okay, Bill.
>> Oh boy. Um, I'm a little torn because
with Jody saying that should be at our
meetings for now on and being able to
provide the the information that we're
looking for, answer the questions, I I
think that should be sufficient with the
reports that she's offering right now.
So, I'm going to say nay.
>> Okay, Kim.
>> Yes. Thank you. Okay. Um,
and I'm actually I'm going to vote no on
this, but I'm with a caveat, which is I
I I'm good with the idea of revisiting
this if it doesn't if for some reason it
doesn't pass. I would like to see what
Jod gets us and then like go from there.
That's my gut take on this.
>> And so, all right. And then I'm sorry,
Heather. I I've kind of looped around
and I don't want to forget you.
>> That's okay. I'm kind of feeling like
Nick, like I don't know. I think I think
I'd like to go nay also, but because
maybe at the next meeting we could see
those reports and then Jody can answer
the questions so I can see more of what
we're missing and what we need to know
about.
>> Okay, so that leaves us at 331,
uh, which is motion does not pass. Um,
but I want to make clear though, uh,
that the other reports we do want, Jody.
>> Got it. Got it.
>> Um, and that this issue I want to leave
it on the agenda,
>> right? Like, let's see what we get and
we should continue the discussion
because I don't want to shut this down.
I think Liz is, you know, looking for
information in a valid way. It's just,
you know, what is the nature and extent
that we want to that we want to do going
forward. Let's see. you know, I haven't
personally dug through some of the some
of the information that we're talking
right now on the board of ed side,
right? Uh so that's something I think we
all need to look at, evaluate, and go,
"Wait a minute. Okay, I you know, maybe
I agree with Liz, that this gives us a
piece of information, but there's not
enough here for us to really understand
it. So, we need more or this is good."
So, that's my take. I think we should we
should leave it on the agenda. we should
kick, you know, have it come up as we
get that information, right?
>> Hopefully monthly. Maybe if there's a
lag of, you know, if we were talking
about reconciliations, Jody, if there's
a if there's a lag and so we have a a
meeting in February and we're seeing the
January stuff, that, you know, that I
think is understandable, but we should
start to get that in our
pipeline, if you will, informationally,
and then we can decide, we can revisit
the issue. I I don't want to shut it
down.
>> Sounds good to me.
Thank you.
>> Um,
okay. So, speaking of school finances,
that brings up the other item that that
I added to the agenda, uh, succeed.
So, there's an email. Um, so, as you may
recall, u, most of the members of the
board probably know this already, but
I'll refresh your memories. There are a
couple of fussial invoices outstanding
for their design work for the bathroom
project that have not been paid by the
town and they're getting kind of
increasingly in a rears. I think one's
from September
um and the other I think is a November
bill.
>> Mhm.
>> And um you know Valer sent an email to
Jeff uh and you know with Caitlyn and me
on copy saying can we get this paid? Oh,
and Jim as well. Uh Jim chimed in to
explain that, you know, well, we're down
a treasurer. We don't have an assistant
treasurer this week due to a death in
the family. And it wasn't clear to me
whether that meant we literally cannot
write a check this week or, you know,
until we get our assistant treasurer
back off leave or what the status of
that is. That's that's what that's sort
of issue number one. Are we literally
unable to write checks this week as a
town? And then two,
you know, this has been an outstanding
issue for a while. I know that where
there had been questions about uh some
of the characterization of the work in
in at least one of the bills, but I
don't think, you know, personally, I
don't think we can just sit on these
bills indefinitely. At some point, I
think they need to be paid. Uh, and if
there's a specific issue with them, uh,
you know, if there if there's additional
information on a on some line item that
could be asked for, then then okay, then
we then somebody needs to email Fuss and
O'Neal with that specific question. But
we need to get, I think, this stuff
paid. Now, just because at some point
we're in violation of the contract right
now. A year ago in our December 2024
meeting, we approved up to $48,000
for the design work through FOs and
O'Neal for this project. My
understanding is we're we're within that
figure. These these are not overages at
this point. I think we spent like 47. I
think we're right about there, but I
don't think we're over. So Valerie asked
uh if we could get them paid and then
offered a workaround if to the extent
that the town cannot
pay it this week, she feels like it
really needs to get paid ASAP. She was
asking if well should the school pay it
and then seek reimbursement as via
transfer uh from their capital account
once we have a treasurer again,
you know, as soon as possible. So that
was the proposal that she put on the
table via email today. I bring it up to
the board for discussion, consideration,
etc. Uh I'm not quite sure the the best
way to handle this, but I again one of
the questions I definitely have is are
we this week just unable to write
checks? Like is that true? Uh or is that
not so? Jeff, do you have
>> Well, listen. Yeah, I do because uh the
issue that the reason they haven't been
paid is is is definitely on me. Um I
have sat there and requested that the
checks be held because for for two
reasons and I'll tell the board why
because the bills from Boston O'Neal are
now in a construction phase. And I heard
somebody before and I think it was Bill
say construction phases mean a lot of
different things. I asked a simple
question earlier in this meeting. Have
we seen final stamp drawings? So, what I
would like to do with Fuss O'Neal is
have a meeting open to the public so we
can all understand what they've done and
where they've been, what they've done
related to this contract. Have they sat
there and bid it out? Did they not bid
it out? I would like to be more open as
to what is going on. So, honestly, there
has been multiple checks cut on this,
Robert, like multiple checks. And I have
asked I asked Eric not to sign the first
one. I asked Jim not to sign the second
one because I don't think we we as a
community and now listen
board of the the town administrator has
the authority to sit there and and sign
those. I as a board of selectment member
manage the town administrator. So what
I've asked is not to pay those until I
can get an understanding of what we
actually received and we have paid for.
I understand we have a contract with I
understand. But that contract changed.
That contract as far as I was concerned
was to go out and do an RFP on a on a
project so that we could get multiple
bids. That project changed and I can't
no one can tell me if they have a
stamped drawing for the project. So that
is why I have asked for those checks to
be held up. Now I have not seen
Valerie's email because I'm traveling
and I'm in a car. But that's why
Fuss and O'Neal has been held up with
the last three or four invoices that
they've they've put through the
treasur's office the finance office
because
I don't know what we've actually
received.
If you guys can find out what we've
received and I would love to have a
meeting with Fuss O'Neal. I would love
and I've we've asked for that before and
we were told no,
but I would love to have a meeting with
Fuss and O'Neal to get an understanding
of what they've done related to their
contract and where they're at because
Robert, they're at the end of their
contract and if I don't have stamp
drawings, what good is it?
>> Can I add something to that?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Um I I I wholeheartedly
um
believe the same thing. Um, I'm actually
working on a project at my daughter's
house, too, and I won't pay a scent
until I see what's going on and if
they've done exactly what the actual
contract has said. So, I feel I feel
there's an obligation for us to know
what has actually been done before we
actually sign the checks. And I would
assume there's a project manager
involved. I mean, is someone overseeing
this whole this whole um operation?
>> Does anyone have an answer to that?
>> The board of ed.
Okay.
>> There is a there is a project manager at
Fonia.
>> At Fonia, I was going to say there
>> I think Louise is asking for the town
though, aren't you asking for the town?
>> No, it's not.
>> No project manager for them because
there's going to be a lead person. Yeah.
>> Yeah. because they're the ones who
should be kind of telling us what
actually has been done and
whether it's been done sufficiently so
we can pay them
and and again I'm not sure 100% of this
but I believe the board of ed feels that
they've fuss O'Neal has provided that
information or those documents to the
board of ed
so I think the board of ed feels like
they've received that information and
the work from Fuss and O'Neal and that
the board of ed feels that they should
be paid for the deliverables. I I think
that's how the board of ed is viewing
this.
>> Okay. And you're on the committee,
right?
>> The committee advising the board of
education as to this project. Have you
received stamped documents related to
the project?
>> I I've seen early documents. I have I
don't believe we've seen the stamped
documents yet.
>> Okay. So, we're about we're about 95% of
the total, I believe. And I don't know
these numbers, but I do know that we're
getting toward the end of this. There's
a lot of money that has because if I
understood the original contract, it was
supposed to go through construction.
>> No, my understanding
>> my the bills that we've received were
for construction design
>> not construction. I mean, the
construction the the quote for the
project is roughly $400,000. So, we're
nowhere near the I mean, we're and it's
my understanding. Again, I haven't seen
them. So, I I I Bill, I don't you've
probably seen more than I have or Jeff,
I don't know if you've asked Valerie for
for the plans that that we do have, but
according to Valerie, there there are
plans. And at the last board of ed
meeting, they talked about giving those
plans to different contractors
to get some informal bids. So, there's
definitely enough there for them to send
out to it's enough of a scope of work to
send out to contractors to get quotes.
So,
>> but I will be honest, I have not seen
that. I don't know what Bill has seen.
Um, but if they're, you know, uh, and I
don't know if Jeff, did you request
something from Val and and like when the
bills came in or Jim?
I I have been I have been requesting
information related to the project and
it has not been clearly
explained as to where we're at because
what you said is you said what I
believed was supposed to happen which
was we were supposed to receive plans
that would go to a bid and and an RFQ.
the the information that Valerie
presented at one of the meetings was
here were the contractors and and
honestly I threw my hands up and said,
"Well, where's the bids? What were
>> No, I'm going to challenge you on that a
little bit. I'm going to be a little
push back because it was design build
from the start and I went back and
looked at
>> it was not that's where the rub is
>> design build." That's where the rub is
right there because when I talked to
Val, the way it was explained to me is
from the very beginning, she thought
this was a design build project. The
board of ed believes this is a design
build project,
>> which is not a design.
>> I don't know who's right and who's
wrong, Jeff. I'm not saying I'm just
saying it to val.
>> I get that. But I have a board of
selectment member who's also on the
committee and that's not how it's
understood. And now we have a board of
education, if I'm understanding this
correctly, and have the finance director
tell me if I'm wrong, that they sat
there and said they want to go out for
more bids.
>> They did not say they want to go for
formal bids. They what they what they
said was they wanted to get some
comparables. So they did want to go out
to not an RFP process, okay? But the
original process was a design build. Um,
again, it's a new process in the state
in Lichfield. We've used it twice with a
lot of success, but it's new. Um, and it
does it skips the bid process. Um,
because it puts trust in and in in the
contract in the the company that they
have, right, that in the firm that they
work with particular contractors, they
have relationships, they know quality,
right? So, it's it's about their quality
of the work. But but anyway um but yes
to my understanding it was always been
design build but I think we are straying
from the issue and I'm sorry but Robert
is I think the invoices and if they if
they have given us enough and again I
I'm not I was I'm new and I wasn't part
of the contract and Bill you probably
know best if if you're on that committee
of you know what was what was promised
by which timeline. You know, I don't I
don't I never heard of a stamp. You
know, we weren't going to pay them until
we had stamped drawings. Um
of design and you pay as those design go
along,
>> right? That's the problem.
>> Yeah. I mean, we got we got billing
going back, you know, three plus months
now at least that we haven't paid. And
you know, I don't think that's fiscally
responsible either.
>> No.
>> So, can I just say this one thing? We
approved $48,600
for this and as of beginning of
September we had paid $42,850
and if we pay this $10,975
we'll be at a total of 53,825.
Just as a side note, um
>> ah
>> does appear that it has gone over um the
42850 was uh in an email that I received
from Eric because I was curious how much
we've spent so far. So
>> that doesn't match the balance sheet.
The balance sheet that the treasurer
sent me showed that $11,000 was spent
this year from that account. So that
42,000 is not matching up information
from the treasurer that just was just in
our um that I just received from them
last week.
>> So I I don't know where is that.
>> We should defin Yeah,
>> we should definitely get you know
clarification a little extra
clarification on that just because you
know it was my understanding we were
within budget. If we're not then that
changes my opinion. So, uh, but that
said, I think there are multiple
invoices, right? Outstanding.
>> That's correct. That is correct. My
issue, Robert, honestly, is what have
they done and where are we at? Are we at
98% complete? Are we at 40% complete?
What is that? Because their bills are
close to the the total amount of money
that is sitting there in that account.
Just telling you.
>> So, I am I am I have been I have been
not on the committee. I wasn't asked to
be on the committee. Jeff Murray was
asked to be on the committee and he
should be on the committee because he is
a building person,
>> right?
>> But even Jeff Murray is under the
understanding that this was supposed to
be an RFP because I would ask you in
your oversight capacity, does that meet
with the board of education's purchasing
policies? Does that meet with the town's
purchasing policies? you know, you're
doing a design build project, you know,
that should have been communicated
beforehand.
>> Well,
>> and if you changed and if you changed
and you changed, you should have had
some discussion within the community
that we're changing to this. So, you
could have gotten feedback right away
whether that was acceptable to the
members of the community and the
taxpayers or not. Because to me, not
bidding that $400,000 project out, it
doesn't sit really well with me.
Might not. It might sit all right. It
might sit all right with you guys. It
doesn't sit well with me.
>> Yeah. I mean, I I've heard you talk
about this before. I'm aware of that. Um
my question, I guess, is this.
I I am not sure I am particularly
comfortable with again holding these
bills because you didn't like the
process that the board of ed chose to
proceed with.
I you know at some point we got to pay
them it you know I get I get that you
want
>> Robert Robert they'll get paid. They
will get paid. I'm not sitting there
saying not pay them. When if they sat
there and we could sit there and have a
sit down with the committee open to the
public so we could understand where
they're at and when this project changed
from a a bid process to a a a design
build project. I I I will they will get
paid. I am not sitting here telling you
that they're not going to get paid. I am
telling you they're being held because
the community deserves answers.
>> You might not like that answer, but I
honestly believe in my role that the
community needs answers on this project.
So, I have I have told the treasur's
office not to pay any bills that get
submitted until we have clarification on
this project. Not just for the board of
education because what they sit there
and say and what they believe they're
the information they're getting from
Valerie, but for the entire community,
for the board of finance, the board of
selection selectment and every taxpayer
that sits there and has a $400,000
project that we've paid $48,000 on a
design on on on engineering services.
What do we get?
Okay. So, to be clear, your demand, your
your ask here before you're going to
allow these bills to be paid is that we
have a meeting maybe with open to all
the boards uh with Fusset O'Neal.
>> All the boards, more the marrier.
Everybody should participate. All right.
Well,
you know,
I can communicate that over to the board
of ed.
Um, you know, I again, I'm pretty
uncomfortable with this whole thing, but
I also want to get to Yes. I want to get
us find a way through this. And I do
also want it done, right? So, all right.
uh you know the what I'm hearing is the
bills you know going to get paid at some
point maybe but not now under the
current situation you don't feel you
have the information so you're not going
to pay the bills
>> listen if you guys want them paid you
can you can I I don't control everything
let me tell you I am one member of the
board but I am one of the signers on the
account and I sit there and have to deal
with all of the all of the boards and
all of the people and I am telling you
if I find a vendor that shouldn't be
paid, right, and I need information, my
my go-to is, can you get me the
information so I know what's going on?
And then they all get paid. The town
does not not pay vendors. If you want
them paid and you want them paid now
without getting final understanding of
what they've done for us to date, you
can authorize that and they will get
paid.
I mean, I I have, you know, speaking of
what they have done to date. I mean, I
have because I asked Valerie to email it
to me. I have the Fuss and O'Neal
documents that they've produced.
>> And
>> now I don't see stamps on the renovation
uh construction document. Uh the um
whatchamacallit, the drawings,
>> the plan, the drawings have not been
stamped that I seen either,
>> but we have them. We have the documents.
We have the have a plan. There's
absolutely there's four PDF files here,
>> right?
>> So, it's not like they, you know, so I
guess the question is,
>> has the board has the committee reviewed
them thoroughly to determine if there's
any changes that need to be made?
>> That's to you, Bill.
>> Well, listen, again, Jeff, that's I'm
not a contractor. I can't review those
plans and specs and say with any
authority that this is 100% correct. We
we got I got Jeff Jeff Murray or anybody
the the uh the gentleman who was on the
board uh Eric Sanderson, have they
approved this? Have they sat there and
reviewed it? Where the lights are, where
the doors are, where the drains are?
Have they gone through and sat there and
and and and worked with Fuss and O'Neal
to say yes? Because listen, I ask Jeff
Murray all the time where he's at with
this. We asked him in our last meeting
where he's at with this.
>> What is that?
>> Because because again, Bill, I'm not on
that committee and I am not a
contractor, but
>> right,
>> he didn't give me a warm and fuzzy that
he was anywhere they weren't the board,
that committee was anywhere close to a
final. Like I don't know when your last
committee meeting was. When was your
last committee meeting?
>> The last real committee meeting that I'm
aware was July.
>> July. July. Okay. All right. So, I mean,
a couple things. First, Nick's had his
hand up for a while, so Nick, why don't
you say what you had to say?
>> Sorry. Yeah, I just have a couple of
questions. Um, we're a pretty
projectized organization where we work,
and there's a couple of things I
naturally go to when we talk about
projects. The first is, do we have a
written contract with them? Do we have
access to it? And does someone else have
access to it? The other thing is in this
contract what were the deliverables and
what are the milestone payments and how
is that being managed because legally if
there is a contract regardless of any
discussion the contract is a written
form and that's what we have to answer
to. So, I was just curious if we have
any documentation or anything on this at
all because
I I we
don't know when we're talking about like
what particularly was provided. I I'd be
curious to see what was provided versus
what we bid and what was proposed. And I
I think just going to the actual
language um would help with that on
behalf of the town. I've never seen the
contract.
I've never saw the contract. I assume
that's the contract.
>> It's a it's in the hands of the board of
education,
>> right? That's where it is. There is a
contract.
>> So, are they the ones that ultimately
manage the billing? I I just that would
be where my brain goes. I would
>> The board of ed is the oversight, you
know, the oversight board for school
projects. They did put together a
subcommittee. That's what we've been
talking about with with Bill and some
other folks on it. And the complication
is that their capital fund, their
capital money is in a fund that is on
the town side.
So when they want to pay FA O'Neal, they
ask the town to cut the check. And the
town,
as we've just heard tonight, hasn't been
doing it for a couple of invoices
because Jeff doesn't feel he's seen
enough information to evaluate whether
or not those bills are appropriate. Um,
so that's where we're at.
>> That that makes sense to me. I'm
tracking that. I just would be curious
verse the language they had, what they
were pro what they were responsible to
provide versus what they actually
provided and if that is broken down.
>> It it is my understanding that the board
of ed thinks that they've been provided
what they were supposed to get.
>> Um but none of us have seen that
contract.
>> Well,
>> Nick, I would love I would love to see
that contract.
>> I would like to see that contract, too.
>> I'd like to make a motion.
But but the contract and and Joanne's
been piping on the side. She says that
the contract did state that Fuzz and
O'Neal was to do the oversight. They
were to be our CM A, if you will, our
construction management advisor and
oversee the project and and all this.
That that's the way it was the design
build with their oversight. That's the
way the contract was written. Uh,
according to Val and what she told me
and to what Joanne just posted on the um
on the chat here, that's what she says
that she remembers as well.
>> But to Nick's point, nobody has really
seen the contract. Can we request that?
>> We should be able to request that.
>> Why can't we request that? As as
taxpayers, we should be able to just ask
for it and they should just say, "Oh,
okay. Here you go." I mean, it's there's
no HIPPA.
>> We can ask.
>> All right. I think
>> you want to call him tomorrow.
>> We make a motion.
>> Like to make a motion that we request
the contract from Fuss and O'Neal so as
to move along the the payment.
>> I think it would provide some clarity on
where we're standing. What was
>> exactly? It would answer a lot of these
questions.
>> I will and I will ask Val to email me
the um the documents the the design
documents again because she sent them to
my personal email. I'm gonna get them on
the town email instead. I don't want to
be forwarding them from my personal
email. She just typed in Robert and I
think it came up my personal instead of
my uh town account. I can ask for that.
>> Hi Jody, do you have something to add?
>> Yeah, I just for moving forward I think
one or one question I have because it's
my understanding that when this account
was set up, it was set up with a
memorandum of understanding between the
board of finance and the board of
education. So, as a new person coming
in, I I it feels like there's a little
bit of lack of clarity of who authorizes
the the payment, right? So, I appreciate
Jeff's point of view and he's trying and
protecting, but I think ultimately, and
maybe that's something the board of
finance can look at is go back to thatou
I think when that when the account was
established and establish protocols for
when bills come in, who who is approving
those bills. So, is it Robert and Val?
You know, my assumption would be it'd be
like the chair of the board of finance.
Um would be or maybe you have to
authorize you make a motion at some
point to authorize Robert to um be the
you know the authorizer of that account.
But um again, if that is something you
guys can look into because um as in from
an outside perspective is that seems to
be part of the issue of who's in charge
of the who's responsible for that
authorization and
>> for the capital fund account.
>> Correct. And let's go to let's go to
that that because that's a big issue for
me because that member of understanding
was never approved at the board of
selectment. The board of selectment has
control of the capital accounts for the
community and has the responsibility for
the oversight of all of the physical
assets of the town including the school.
So you may think and and listen honestly
that whole transfer was done
incorrectly.
So we can sit there and have a debate on
that if we would like. We'll take this
meeting for another three hours which we
don't want to do. But I am telling you
that is a problem. That whole account is
a problem.
The board of finance allowed the school
to put an uh they were they were under
budget by $400 and some odd thousands
and the board of finance put that money
into a capital fund for the benefit of
the school. Didn't take into account
anything related to the town and what
the town's needs were for any other
physical asset within the community.
That's the role of CIP and the board of
selectment. We come to the board of
finance and ask the board of finance for
s so much money and you guys approve it.
That's what you're supposed to do. So I
have a huge problem with that
memorandum. My understanding it never
got passed. It is not official. It is
not active. So we have a process and we
all need to follow the process. Jeff,
you know, first of all, we did take we
always take into consideration all the
needs of the town, the school, all the
constituencies. That's not accurate that
we did not take into consideration
those.
>> How did all that money then end up in
that fund?
>> We approved it because we thought it was
appropriate because we knew the bathroom
project was coming.
>> Oh, okay. All right. And that took
priority over every other project within
this community. And again, you want to
go you want to go to the bathroom
project, Robert, I'll ask you the same
questions that I need to ask board of
board of education.
>> Do we need that bathroom with the the
student count that we currently have?
Because if you want to really get into
details, I'll sit there and like to go
there because I have 61 children in a
prek program that can't use that
bathroom. So, I have 195 children that
need bathrooms. Do we actually need to
spend that money on that school? Because
that school was built for in excess of
500 students.
So, I have a lot of issues. I agree. I I
will support the bathroom project
because we should do it, but I have a
problem with how we've been doing
things. So, I'm just telling you it's
just doesn't make a lot of the things
don't make sense to me. And when you say
that you took into account every other
project that the town had, I don't
really believe that.
Well, I'm sorry you feel that way, but
we absolutely go through, you know, and
again, I'm on the CIP committee. You
know, I we go through and look at the
town's needs all the time. The town has
a capital plan.
>> I'm aware of the bridge covert work that
needs to be done. And I mean, I don't I
don't know where this is coming from
that we just didn't consider it. That's
But you know what? Fine. That's your
take. I'm I'm not going to waste any
more time on it. Um on getting back and
forth on that. Uh I just that's not how
I evaluated things. Uh in any event, we
obviously have a huge problem here with
the operation of that capital account.
Uh a capital fund, I should say.
Accounts probably the wrong term. Um
obviously I thought it was going to work
a certain way, but the board of Select
Wind doesn't really agree with me on
that. So we're going to have ongoing
issues here until we sort out
sort this out again. And I think we're
going to have to have more meetings. Um,
but I don't think we can solve this
issue tonight.
Um, I am perfectly fine with requesting.
By the way, did we do we actually get to
the to our motion here?
>> We have a motion on the floor.
>> Yeah, we have a motion on the floor. So,
um, we have a second on that motion.
And just to clarify, the motion is to
ask for the contract between the board
of ed and fuss O'Neal.
>> Yes,
>> I'll second that motion.
>> Okay. All right. Any further discussion
on that particular motion?
Okay. All in favor?
>> You want to go down roll call or
>> Sure. Sure. We'll do it that way. Fine.
Louise,
>> yes.
>> I vote yes. Liz,
>> Bill,
>> yes.
>> Nick,
>> Heather,
>> yes.
>> Van Cam,
>> All right. Seano, I'll send an email
that effect. I'll copy you, Liz. All
right. Um or maybe I'll just copy us
all.
>> Rob, can you also when you get a chance,
um can you send out the copies of those
drawings so that we can all
>> That's what I was saying earlier is that
I have them, but Val, I think she typed
in my name and it came up my personal
address and she sent them to my personal
email. I wanted to resend them to my um
town account and then disseminate them
because that's the way it should be.
That's just the way I'm being a little
personny about this, but apologies.
>> No, I I get it. I get it.
>> Okay. But no, I I'm going to ask for
both of those things. Uh and then I can
send them around. When
>> you say both of those things, Rob, does
that include a meeting for a meeting of
understanding like Jeff's asking for or
just
>> I'm going to I'm debating whether I'm
going to put this all in one email or
I'm going to send two to say that we had
an extensive discussion tonight at our
meeting uh visv the status of the
bathroom project. And there are, you
know, you know, one of the one of the
the asks on the town side, at least from
our first selectman, is a meeting with
Fuss and O'Neal, um, about what they've
done and where they're at in terms, you
know, and that's his ask for moving
forward with Bill Payment. And I think
that's probably a separate email. I
think I I'll probably split the because
one is a straightforward information
request. Can you send us these two
documents or five actually, but yeah.
So, that's what we'll ask for. Um,
and we'll see where we go from there.
Uh, I, you know, I don't have a problem
with, uh, trying to put together a
meeting with Fuss and O'Neal. I don't
know how long it's going to take,
especially if we're trying to get all
the boards together for it. Um, if we
can get something together in January,
it'd be great. I don't know how, you
know, again,
how um, upset they are about the the
billing delays. Uh but you know, I know
there's some pressure there. So
hopefully we can do it quickly if this
is what it takes to get it done. That's
my take. Um okay, the other issue, this
is the final one on 6c was the seed
grant money.
Um that was another request that had
been made from the superintendent. The
town apparently got grant money from the
state of Connecticut for the school for
special education grant. It's called
seed.
Um, and they would like that transferred
over and apparently it hasn't been. And
I'm not clear on if there's some sort of
problem. So, if anybody Jeff, if you
know or do we have Jim anymore? If if
there's anything that can be added here
on that, I'd appreciate it because I
don't understand exactly what's going
on.
>> There's been a request for RAM. Sorry,
Jim. There's been a request for RAM for
a portion of that money as well. So
there's not been an understanding of
whose money is it really and what is it
for
>> and just telling you Ram has requested a
portion of that funding.
>> So I
>> okay that I didn't know about
>> I just I just sent to uh Jim today was I
was over in the office getting check
signed. Um Ram had a board meeting I
believe it was November 17th. the
minutes already posted where Ram did
originally want a part of that money,
but then Ram um they brought it to the
the board of ed um and the principal
basically conceded and said that they um
understand that the money is not for
regional school districts anymore. It's
in their it's in their minutes. Um
they're going to pursue this. Thank you.
They're going to uh pursue that with um
it says at the end focus is now is
advocating for distribution next year.
Um and it said it is uh towns does not
anticipate getting any of these funds in
this school year. The way the funds were
distributed was not bene was not
beneficial for RAM. No allocation this
year. So, um I think with those minutes
we should be ready to release that money
to AES.
>> Okay.
>> And I think I think under Jeff, if I
could underlying in those minutes
though, there's clear, you know, it's
it's not it's not a an authorization
to forego the money. I think it's an
acknowledgment
that they're saying region should work
with local towns and school districts
and school districts ultimately make the
decision and there's nothing here
under the decision that helps us. So
we're not going to be out we're out of
the money but next year we're going to
go we have to go after this money. So
that's they're clearly acknowledging
they have no use for the money because
it doesn't fall into anything they want.
Um, but I think there's a undercurrent
of saying we really didn't work with the
local school here.
>> And that would be great. And Jody, the
only thing that I would ask you on this
supplemental money, is it supplemental
money that needs to be spent for some
purpose that is in addition to what the
board of finances already budgeted for,
or is it um similar to the ECS funding,
which is just to support the overall
finances for because if you give and I'm
going to sit there and I'm going to go
like I I have a mental problem with both
of the these and it's a small amount of
money. So I it's $4,000. and give it to
the school, but is it for something
additional that needs to to be provided
for the ability to receive those funds
or is it something that is offsetting
the current budget that the board of
finance has already provided?
>> Yeah. No, it can't offset. It's actually
it's called the special education
expansion and development grant. So, it
can only be used for new types of
programming. it can't be used for
anything existing. So we have we have a
plan. Val has already um interviewed and
met with Taylor and they've met a a
tutor to work who ask for special
education students in some new capacity.
So we've already lined up a a tutor a
new tutor to work with um students um
and we would like to start that in in
January. Um that's why we are eager to
uh get the money transferred over. But
yes, it cannot be used for something
already in the general fund. Unfort
Unfortunately, it is that's unfortunate.
It's uh people around the state have
been complaining about
>> I have I have I have no problem if it's
if it's for something supplemental and
is going to improve, you know, the the
situation for any given student. So if
that's the case, Jim, just make sure
that the issue related to RAM is is is
not going to become a problem for us.
And then uh we should sit there and get
that money moved so that that and that
would go into I'm assuming you would put
that into your grant fund account
>> bank account.
>> Yeah, that would go into our grant
account. Yes.
>> And then and then and then there's some
documentation that's provided to the
state as to what was done with that
supplemental money.
>> Correct. We will have to do a report to
the state. Yeah.
>> Okay. Uh uh Jim, let's sit there and
make sure that we don't have any issues
with RAM and let's get that money
transferred.
>> Great. Thank you.
>> Thank you.
>> Well, I'm glad we made able to make
progress on that at least.
Um okay, so let's see where are we?
Uh oh, that would bring us to leison
reports. Um I don't have anything from
CIP and I think we've pretty extensively
discussed um the board of ed stuff but
if there was more from the board of ed
meeting for those of us who attended if
Liz or Kim you wanted to chime in with
anything to to mention I'm I'm happy to
entertain that but I I think it was
mostly the bathroom project that we were
that we were focused on
>> and and uh and more more financial
information,
>> right? I meant I meant sorry. I meant in
the context of like a leazison reporting
back from the BOE meeting is what we
attended. We're not really liaison
there, but
>> uh I just figured that was the most
appropriate place if we had more to add
on the what they what happens at the
board of ed meeting. It was an over
three-hour meeting. A lot got done um
but most of which isn't really um
necessarily gerine to the our other
discussions. So
>> I don't have anything new to add, Rob. I
appreciate you asking. Okay, good.
Thanks. I just want to make sure
because, you know, I I'm capable of
missing something. Um, I do know at that
meeting that Val presented a very
preliminary,
>> you know, budgetary outlook, I guess you
could say.
>> There was a little presentation there.
And again, we've heard it before.
Actually, the the none of it was about
the healthcare costs.
>> Yeah.
>> You know, and and what they're staring
down in terms of the healthcare premium
increase that was uh communicated at the
tri board meeting. It's it hasn't
changed. Unfortunately, that hasn't
gotten any better. So, that's that was
my big takeaway from what's coming down
the pike um budgetarily, I guess you
could say. Putting the bathroom project
aside for a moment. That's their ops
budget, obviously.
Okay. Um let's see if we can move this
along. Meeting minutes, we don't have
them.
We hope to get them next time. We'll
leave it on the agenda. Uh we also
hopefully are getting a recovery of the
recording. Uh that's I I'm glad to hear
that there's some hope that that can be
done. So hopefully we do that. That
brings us to board open discussion. Is
there any other topics that folks want
to chat about?
Okay. Hearing none, then correspondence.
Well, I mean I suppose you could say the
email I mentioned earlier uh was
correspondence, but we've addressed it.
So I don't have anything further. Does
anybody else have anything?
>> Okay.
I got nothing there. Very good. Public
speak. Let's see. Uh well, I'll go
through Jody. We've heard from you a
lot. If you do you have anything more?
>> Just thank you so much and I look
forward to working with you all. So,
thank you.
>> I'd also like to send my thanks. I'm
really glad you're coming to our
meetings and plan to do so in the
future. That's it's great.
>> Thank you, Jody.
>> In the interest of get the getting
information and understanding what's
going on, it's really helpful. Uh so,
thank you for that. Uh Joanne,
>> hey Rob, thank you for the opportunity.
Um I really appreciated listening to the
meeting. I've often said that I think
it's really important to have you know
open discussion, open dialogue even if
people don't agree with things. And then
I personally just wanted to say to the
two members, the two new members that I
am really impressed with them and I
wanted there was a reason I wanted to
see that recording because after the
meeting I felt a little bad. I know that
I get very um you know I put a lot of
blood, sweat and tears in my four years
on the board. So you know to not receive
the Republican nod last time they went
with a couple new people. They didn't
get seated and so that was fine. you
know, I'm willing to just be a resident
that's concerned and kind of sit in
these meetings and hopefully impart
anything that I do remember because I
think it's important in this
transitional time. So, I wanted to see
that if if I came across as negative to
either one of you, I personally want to
apologize in public because it was more
just
um making sure that the history of
everything going on in the process is
just so important while you're picking
new people. So, but I'm already really
impressed with your thoughtful
questions. One thing that I wanted to
say too, um, because it looks like
Heather is going to be in the treasurer
interviews. Um, I don't think the
history, you know, of the treasurer was
spoken about too much, but I really had
a lot of respect for the outgoing
treasurer because she came in when, just
so both of you know, she came in when
the town was a mess. And you know, Mr.
Maguire knows that as an accountant and
everything and she really whipped it
into shape, got a plan in place and all
of that. And so she is a part-time
person. I think it would be really
important for all of you as a board to
and I understand that they kept Cheryl
on and she really wanted to retire
forever, but she did her piece and she
did well, you know, and and I respect
that, but I think you as a board should
really ask for her to come to your
meetings like the the board of ed person
came because look how much progress it
is when like Jeff Maguire's there, um
the new finance person for the board of
ed is there and then hopefully,
>> you know, years ago. I got involved 10
years ago. The treasurer was always at
these meetings. She was always at the
board of selectmen meetings. She was
always at these meetings. I think that
it's time for you guys to be a little
bit more demanding with the the
information you receive in packets
information. You know, again, I'm one
resident, but I really did put a lot of
time and effort into it. So, I'm just
putting suggestions out there. So, I
hope that like, okay,
>> Cheryl was able to be present. Maybe one
day a week you could email her. And when
I found the $40,000 error in the budget
last year, it took like a month before I
got an email back. And that's only
because of the time she was allowing
herself. So, I just think it's important
that you guys decide how, you know, for
a part-time person that you're going to
give that much money, maybe demand a
little bit more time. That's all. Good
luck with everything. Oh, and I just
want to make sure that I'm not married
to that comment of design and build. I
remember what Bill said um that there
was a contract for Fuss and O'Neal that
they were going to be the oversight
agency so that the town didn't have to
for the plans. You know, then there was
going to be a bidding process and then
maybe even they were going to oversight
something else at the end. But you guys
will all figure that out once you see
the contract. Thank you and good night.
>> Thank you, Joanne. I I'll just say as a
comment to that that you know, yeah, I
would love to have our treasurer come to
our meetings once we have a treasurer. I
would I'd like that very much. I think
we need that.
>> Um okay. And then um uh does our first
selectman have anything further to add?
>> You you don't need to hear anything
more. We're good.
>> Thank you for listening to me. I
appreciate it and I like coming to these
meetings and I should have been coming
to these meetings beforehand so I
apologize.
>> No apology necessary. Thanks for coming.
>> All right.
>> It wasn't meant negative. I just think
it's a positive for the town. I mean, I
don't like when people take things as
negative. It's just it's just a comment,
>> you know. Thank you.
>> Thanks, Joanne. Okay. Uh I think that's
everybody.
So unless there's anything further, do
we have a motion to adjurnn?
>> Motion to adjurnn.
>> I'll second that.
>> All right, Louise seconds. Very good.
Any discussion? Going once, going twice.
Very good. Let's have a vote. All in
favor of adjourning this meeting, say I.
>> I.
>> Heather, did I get an eye?
>> You did.
>> I didn't get a room out of that guy. All
right, great. Thank you.